Explore Viam (#3186)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/get-started/_index.md

---
title: "Learn about Viam"
linkTitle: "Learn about Viam"
weight: 5
description: "Viam is a complete software platform for smart machines which provides modular components and services for vision, motion, SLAM, ML, and data management."
no_list: true
type: docs
aliases:
  - "/getting-started/"
  - "/getting-started/high-level-overview"
  - "/product-overviews/"
  - "/viam/"
  - "/viam/app.viam.com/"
imageAlt: "/general/understand.png"
images: ["/general/understand.png"]
carouselscript: true
---

Viam is a software platform that makes it easy to combine and integrate hardware and software to build machines, connect them with the cloud, and make them smarter with machine learning.

<div>
{{< imgproc src="/viam/viam.png" alt="Viam overview" resize="800x" class="aligncenter" >}}
</div>

Machines are everywhere, from small machines like IOT sensors, to home automation systems, to robotic systems, cars and boats, and even more complex enterprise systems.

> All these machines start by combining hardware that senses or actuates through software.

Reviewer: This sentence could be interpreted in a few ways:
1. Hardware senses *through* software.
    I don't think that's the intention, since most people probably think of it as hardware senses, and software interprets.
2. Hardware senses or actuates. Software is used to  combine pieces of hardware.
       What does it mean to combine?

Consider reworking to convey intended meaning

Author: will just simplify to hardware and software

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides the user interface for configuring your machine.
You can put together any of the available resources across microcontrollers and computers as configurable building blocks.
As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected.

{{<gif webm_src="/test.webm" mp4_src="/test.mp4" alt="Test a camera stream" max-width="600px" class="aligncenter">}}

Viam has many built-in {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} that run within `viam-server`.

For everything that is not built-in, Viam has **modules**.
Modules from the [**Viam Registry**](/registry/) provide custom components or services as _modular resources_ which are run alongside `viam-server`.
When configuring your machine, you can choose choose and configure builtin components and services, as well as any available from the Viam Registry.
You can also create your own resources for any hardware or software and add them to the Viam Registry.

> Each category of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}}, whether a builtin component or service or a custom component or service from the registry, has a **standardized API** that you can access with an [SDK (software development kit)](/sdks/) in your preferred programming language.

Author: ```suggestion
Each category of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}}, whether a built-in component or service or a custom component or service from the registry, has a **standardized API** that you can access with an [SDK (software development kit)](/sdks/) in your preferred programming language.
```

> Each category of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}}, whether a builtin component or service or a custom component or service from the registry, has a **standardized API** that you can access with an [SDK (software development kit)](/sdks/) in your preferred programming language.

Reviewer: I don't think your suggestion was applied?

// Set the power to  40% forwards.
await myMotor.setPower(0.4);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="C++" %}}

```cpp {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
std::shared_ptr<Motor> motor = robot->resource_by_name<Motor>("my_motor");
// Set the power to  40% forwards.
motor->set_power(0.4);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The standardized nature of Viam's resource APIs means that when you build machines, you can swap out components such as motors without changing any code.
The only change needed is to your machine configuration.
The Viam Registry provides a marketplace for adding and sharing modules, all using these standard APIs.

However, if you need more custom behaviour, you can extend these APIs to suit your own needs.

You can use Viam's SDKs, as well as the Viam app, and the Viam mobile app, to control and monitor your machines securely.
If `viam-server` can connect to the internet, you can control and monitor your machines securely from anywhere in the world.
In scenarios where machines are connected to a local area network (LAN) with intermittent or no cloud connectivity, you can control and monitor machines from the local network or with code on the machines themselves.

> With the features so far, you can configure a wide variety of machines.

Author: a transition

The Viam app does not just provide a useful configuration interface.
It also provides several higher-level functionalities to make your machines smarter and better, such as:

- **Data Management**: Any data on your machine can be synced to the cloud, from where you can query it using SQL, MQL, or with code.
- **Machine Learning**: Train machine learning models on collected data and deploy ML models to machines to enable them to intelligently see and interpret the world around them.
- **Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM)**: A machine can map its surroundings and find its position on a map.

> On a more structural level, the [Viam App](https://app.viam.com)'s **fleet management** capabilities enable you to:

Reviewer: I think, to improve scanning and reduce verbosity, this could be
```suggestion
Viam app fleet management capabilities:
```
Then users don't have to wonder what we mean by "a more structural level" and can just get into it.

```suggestion
On a more structural level, the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com)'s **fleet management** capabilities enable you to:
```
[nit] if this stays

<div>
{{< imgproc src="/viam/viam.png" alt="Viam overview" resize="800x" class="aligncenter" >}}
</div>

## `viam-server` and the Viam app

At the core of Viam is the open-source `viam-server` executable which runs on a computer and manages hardware, software, and data for a machine.
To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration specifying which hardware and software the machine consists of.
`viam-server` then manages and runs the drivers for the configured hardware components and software services.

For example, if you are building a pet-feeding machine you might install `viam-server` on a Raspberry Pi and create a machine configuration with a camera and a servo for the hardware you are using.

If you are working with microcontrollers, the [micro-RDK](/installation/) is a lightweight version of `viam-server` which can run on resource-limited embedded systems that cannot run the fully-featured `viam-server`.

The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides the user interface for configuring your machine.
You can put together any of the available resources across microcontrollers and computers as configurable building blocks.

> As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.
```

---
title: "Learn about Viam"
linkTitle: "Learn about Viam"
weight: 5
description: "Viam is a complete software platform for smart machines which provides modular components and services for vision, motion, SLAM, ML, and data management."
no_list: true
type: docs
aliases:
  - "/getting-started/"
  - "/getting-started/high-level-overview"
  - "/product-overviews/"
  - "/viam/"
  - "/viam/app.viam.com/"
imageAlt: "/general/understand.png"
images: ["/general/understand.png"]
carouselscript: true
---

Viam is a software platform that makes it easy to combine and integrate hardware and software to build machines, connect them with the cloud, and make them smarter with machine learning.

Machines are everywhere, from small machines like IoT sensors, to home automation systems, robotic systems, cars and boats, and even more complex enterprise systems.
All these machines start by combining hardware and software.

<div>
{{< imgproc src="/viam/viam.png" alt="Viam overview" resize="800x" class="aligncenter" >}}
</div>

## `viam-server` and the Viam app

> At the core of Viam is the open-source `viam-server` executable which runs on a computer and manages hardware and software for a machine.

Author: I think we don't want to say that because people don't think of it that way for sensors for example. they just think of that as hardware

To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration specifying which hardware and software the machine consists of.
`viam-server` then manages and runs the drivers for the configured hardware components and software services.

For example, if you are building a pet-feeding machine you might install `viam-server` on a Raspberry Pi and create a machine configuration with a camera and a servo for the hardware you are using.

> If you are working with microcontrollers, the [micro-RDK](/installation/) is a lightweight version of `viam-server` which can run on resource-limited embedded systems that cannot run the fully-featured `viam-server`.

Author: I think they can explore that if they care about microcontrollers

> The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides the user interface for configuring your machine.

Reviewer: They wouldn’t *configure* in an SDK interface though so probably good to leave as-is

> You can put together any of the available resources across microcontrollers and computers as configurable building blocks.

Reviewer: This sorta sounds like the microcontrollers and computers are the building blocks. I think "available" might also throw people.
```suggestion
You can put together any components and services as configurable building blocks.
```

> As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected in the same UI you use for configuration.
```

{{<gif webm_src="/test.webm" mp4_src="/test.mp4" alt="Test a camera stream" max-width="600px" class="aligncenter">}}

Viam has many built-in {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} that run within `viam-server`.

### Extensibility

For everything that is not built-in, you can deploy _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="modules" >}}_ from the [**Viam Registry**](/registry/).

> Modules from the Viam registry provide custom components or services as _modular resources_ which are run and managed by `viam-server` as processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modules provide custom components or services as _modular resources_ which are run and managed by `viam-server` as processes.
```
so as not to repeat the preceding phrase

> When configuring your machine, you can choose and configure builtin components and services, as well as any available from the Viam Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring your machine, you can choose and configure built-in components and services, as well as any available from the Viam Registry.
```
[nit]

myMotorComponent, err := motor.FromRobot(machine, "my_motor")
// Set the motor power to 40% forwards.
myMotorComponent.SetPower(context.Background(), 0.4, nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Flutter" %}}

```dart {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
final base = Motor.fromRobot(client, "my_motor");
// Set the power to  40% forwards.
await myMotor.setPower(0.4);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="TypeScript" %}}

```ts {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
const myMotor = new VIAM.MotorClient(client, "my_motor");
// Set the power to  40% forwards.
await myMotor.setPower(0.4);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="C++" %}}

```cpp {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
std::shared_ptr<Motor> motor = robot->resource_by_name<Motor>("my_motor");
// Set the power to  40% forwards.
motor->set_power(0.4);
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The standardized nature of Viam's resource APIs means that when you build machines, you can swap out components such as motors without changing any code.
The only change needed is to your machine configuration.

However, if you need more custom behaviour, you can extend these APIs to suit your own needs.

### Connect from anywhere

> You can use Viam's SDKs, as well as the Viam app, and the Viam mobile app, to control and monitor your machines securely.

Reviewer: +1 (and make apps plural in that case)

> Viam uses WebRTC and gRPC for secure peer to peer communications across network boundaries.

Author: https is a protocol to send data between a web browser and a server. Neither `viam-server` nor the micro-RDK use it. There's a good page on WebRTC on the wiki. 

As I understand it microcontrollers currently are connected to a higher level board like a pi which then runs viam-server. But don't quote me on that. I thought that connection was over a wire but also that I am not actually certain of

> Viam uses WebRTC and gRPC for secure peer to peer communications across network boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Viam uses WebRTC and gRPC for secure peer-to-peer communications across network boundaries.
```
[nit]

If `viam-server` can connect to the internet, you can control and monitor your machines securely **from anywhere in the world**.
In scenarios where machines are connected to a local area network (LAN) with intermittent or no cloud connectivity, you can control and monitor machines from the local network or with code on the machines themselves.

### Better and smarter machines

<div>
<img src="data-ml.svg" alt="A rover detecting a flower" class="alignright" width="400px" >
</div>

> With all this, you can configure a wide variety of machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think the next sentence works as a better transition on its own.

The Viam app does not just provide a useful configuration interface.
It also provides several higher-level functionalities to make your machines smarter and better, such as:

> - **Data Management**: Any data on your machine can be synced to the cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data Management**: Any data on your machine can be synced to the cloud.
```

---
title: "Learn about Viam"
linkTitle: "Learn about Viam"
weight: 5
description: "Viam is a complete software platform for smart machines which provides modular components and services for vision, motion, SLAM, ML, and data management."
no_list: true
type: docs
aliases:
  - "/getting-started/"
  - "/getting-started/high-level-overview"
  - "/product-overviews/"
  - "/viam/"
  - "/viam/app.viam.com/"
imageAlt: "/general/understand.png"
images: ["/general/understand.png"]
carouselscript: true
---

Viam is a software platform that makes it easy to work with hardware and software.

<div>

> {{< imgproc src="/viam/viam.png" alt="Viam overview" resize="800x" class="aligncenter" >}}

Author: Placeholder - will get a prettier version once content is decided

Reviewer: Can it just be "viam-server" instead of "./viam-server"?

> {{< imgproc src="/viam/viam.png" alt="Viam overview" resize="800x" class="aligncenter" >}}

Reviewer 2: This diagram is pretty well structured IMO, only feedback for now is for the registry box to say "Use existing resources or create and deploy modules to support additional hardware, algorithms, and integrations" or something that indicates this is more than hardware drivers

Author: I like that, thanks

</div>

<div>

> {{< imgproc src="/viam/pet-feeder.png" alt="Machine components" resize="400x" class="alignright" >}}

Author: Placeholder - will get a prettier version once content is decided

</div>

At the core of Viam is the open-source `viam-server` executable which runs on a device and manages hardware and software for a machine.

> To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration that contains components and services and you can choosen from a wide variety of available models for different resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration that contains components and services and you have chosen from a wide variety of available models for different resources.
```

> To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration that contains components and services and you can choosen from a wide variety of available models for different resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Viam with a machine, you create a configuration that contains components and services you choose from a wide variety of available models for different resources.
```

> For example, if you have a pet-feeding machine you might install `viam-server` on a Raspberry Pi and create a machine configuration using a camera model and a servo model for the hardware you are using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you are building a pet-feeding machine you might install `viam-server` on a Raspberry Pi and create a machine configuration using a camera model and a servo model for the hardware you are using.
```

> The Viam app provides the user interface for configuring your machine.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) provides the user interface for configuring your machine.
```

> The Viam App provides the user interface for configuring your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Viam app provides the user interface for configuring your machine.
```
[nit]

It allows you to configure builtin drivers or drivers from the Viam Registry.
`viam-server` then manages and runs the drivers for the configured resources.
As you configure your machine, you can test each resource to confirm it is working as expected.

{{<gif webm_src="/test.webm" mp4_src="/test.mp4" alt="Test a camera stream" max-width="700px" class="aligncenter">}}

> Viam is built to be extensible, allowing you to create your own resources for custom hardware or software and deploy your code using modules through the Viam Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Viam is built to be extensible, allowing you to create your own resources for any hardware or software and deploy your code using modules through the Viam Registry.
```
[opt] Today, received feedback that "custom" is confusing

Reviewer 2: +1

> Viam is built to be extensible, allowing you to create your own resources for custom hardware or software and deploy your code using modules through the Viam Registry.

Reviewer 2: I am not quite sure how to fit this without making it too confusing, but another very powerful feature of Viam is that you can have multi-part robots so that you can have things run in a combination of locations (some local, some on a server or cloud, etc).  Maybe its too advanced of a topic but if we can think of a way to say it without being too confusing it may be worth mentioning.

> 

Reviewer 2: I know its mentioned below, but it might be a very strong point to add RBAC to this list:

* Role-based access control: Grant secure access to manage and programmatically control machines.

Author: Added a collaboration section

> On top of configuration, the Viam App also provides several higher-level functionalities for your machine, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of configuration, the Viam app also provides several higher-level functionalities for your machine, such as:
```
[nit]

- **Data Management**: Any data on your machine can be synced to the cloud, from where you can query it using SQL, MQL, or with code.

> - **Machine Learning**: Train machine learning models on collected data and deploy ML models to machines to enable them to intelligently see and interpret the world around it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Machine Learning**: Train machine learning models on collected data and deploy ML models to machines to enable them to intelligently see and interpret the world around them.
```
I think?

> - **Motion planning**: Plan and move machine components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Motion Planning**: Plan and move machine components.
```
to match others

> - **Motion Planning**: Plan and move machine components.

Reviewer 2: technically the app/cloud has nothing to do with this today, not sure if we plan on adding the ability to run motion planning in viam cloud?

Author: Fair enough. Can remove that line
```suggestion
```

- **Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM)**: A machine can map its surroundings and find its position on a map.

> ## Standardized APIs

Reviewer 3: love this!!

Each category of {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} has a standardized API that you can access with an [SDK (software development kit)](/sdks/) in your preferred programming language.
For example, you can send the same [`SetPower` command](/components/motor/#setpower) to any kind of motor, using any of the available SDKs.

> The standardized nature of the resource APIs, means that when you build machines, you can swap out components such as motors without changing any code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The standardized nature of Viam's resource APIs means that when you build machines, you can swap out components such as motors without changing any of code.
```
should we add something like "assuming the same method is implemented" bc they aren't always? idk

Author: I think that's a detail that is too early to point out to people given how introductory this content is
```suggestion
The standardized nature of Viam's resource APIs means that when you build machines, you can swap out components such as motors without changing any code.
```

The only change needed is to your machine configuration.

The Viam [Registry](/registry/) provides a marketplace for adding and sharing modules, all using these standard APIs.

## Scale

> The Viam App does not limit you to managing just one machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Viam App](https://app.viam.com) does not limit you to managing just one machine.
```

Viam's **fleet management** capabilities enable you to:

- Manage permissions within your organization and locations.
- Manage software across your fleet, including deployment of code and machine learning models.
- Configure, control, debug, and manage groups of machines in one go.

## Support

Viam supports devices running **any** 64-bit Linux OS or macOS.
Here are some of the boards Viam supports:

{{< board-carousel >}}
<br>

> ## Network flexibility

Reviewer 2: This section puts a lot of emphasis on being able to have your machine work offline, but what I believe to be a very differentiating feature for Viam is only mentioned in passing: the ability to control and monitor your machines securely from anywhere with the programming language of your choice.  This should imo be highlighted clearly and distinctly.

Your machine does not need to be connected to the cloud.
Viam is designed to work whether your machine is connected to the internet continuously or intermittently.

> `viam-server` is installed resides on your machine and alongside your configurations, your code, and services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once `viam-server` is installed, it resides on your machine and alongside your configurations, your code, and services.
```
or 
```suggestion
`viam-server` runs on your machine and alongside your configurations, your code, and services.
```
this sentence is also a bit confusing bc the code doesn't have to be alongside your machine? like the client code is what i'm thinking of and that can be run anywhere right? really it might just be the configuration json that's "alongside" precisely and the services are like a part of the viam-server run process (I might be confused here)

> In scenarios without cloud connectivity, you can still connect your machine to a local area network (LAN), or to any relevant devices (such as a gamepad):

Reviewer 3: could link here

Author: Maybe in the future. I think the only thing we could link to for now is https://docs.viam.com/sdks/#run-code and that doesn't really feel right. https://docs.viam.com/sdks/connectivity/ also feels wrong
